Significant changes for Proxy DNS and SVCB request/response handling : try 2 (#9)
tfpauly/privacy-proxy: draft-proxied-svcb-headers.md

  +----------------------+----------+--------+---------------+
~~~

# Privacy Considerations {#priv-considerations}

Client variation in Proxy-DNS-Request may be a vector for fingerprinting.
Clients concerned about this may prefer to:
* Not include "param" and receive all SVCB parameters.
* Sort the item's parameters by their keys.
* Limit variation in the values for "wait"
  and select a wait value of 50, 100, 200,
  400, 800, or 1600.
* Not send "version" if implementing only the default
  (published RFC) version.

*TODO*: Is this a good set of "wait" values?

# Security Considerations {#sec-considerations}

The "Proxy-DNS-SVCB" header in {{proxy-dns-svcb}} and "Proxy-DNS-Used"
headers in {{proxy-dns-used}} do not include any DNSSEC
information. Clients that depend on the contents of the SVCB record
being DNSSEC-validated MUST NOT use this metadata without otherwise
fetching the record and its corresponding RRSIG record and locally
verifying its contents.

Clients relying on ECH should avoid sending anything on
opportunistically created connections until verifying whether
there is a preferred alternative service that supports ECH
which they should use.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

# Acknowledgments

Thank you to Mike Bishop, Chris Wood, and others for their feedback and suggestions on this draft.
```

HTTPS) DNS records through HTTP proxies while using the proxies
to perform the SVCB record lookups.  This includes defining HTTP header
fields for the passing DNS metadata in HTTP responses.

--- middle

# Introduction

CONNECT {{!RFC7231}} and CONNECT-UDP {{!I-D.ietf-masque-connect-udp}}
are HTTP methods (referred hereafter as "CONNECT*") that
clients may use to establish TCP or UDP flows to target servers. Once proxy servers establish
these flows, proxy servers treat allocated flows as opaque byte or datagram streams respectively.
Clients specify the target in authority-form (Section 5.3 of {{!RFC7230}}), including the name or
IP address of the server along with a port number. When using a name instead of an IP address, the
proxy server locally resolves the name to an IPv4 or IPv6 address with A or AAAA queries. As previously
defined, clients do not see these A or AAAA answers.

*TODO*: some CONNECT* methods may be moving away from specifying the target
in authority-form (and may use something closer to what is specified in rfc8441)
and we should update accordingly.  

Clients using Service Binding (SVCB or HTTPS) records {{!SVCB=I-D.ietf-dnsop-svcb-https}}

> need perform additional DNS resolutions prior to issuing a CONNECT* request, as clients

Reviewer: It's DRE

connect to the "alternative endpoint" specified by the SVCB record (Section 3.2 of {{SVCB}}),
which includes a TargetName that may be distinct from the server name.

These records can influence client behavior even when clients are not directly interacting with
target IP addresses. The records can be used to determine which application-level protocols
are supported by an endpoint. These records also can include a TLS Encrypted Client Hello
{{!I-D.ietf-tls-esni}} configuration, which can be used in protecting the end-to-end TLS handshake.

It is not always optimal for client that want to use SVCB to perform a separate
DNS resolution prior to using a CONNECT* proxy, for a couple reasons:

1. The extra DNS lookup incurs a performance penalty in delaying the client's
connection establishment, which might be wasted if there aren't any SVCB records present.

2. If the client is using the proxy for providing additional privacy, performing

> DNS lookups not through the proxy might disclose the client's destination

Reviewer: Great job.

For example, "example.com" or "_foo.example.com" or "_8443._bar.api.example.com".

*TODO*: Should this have a trailing "." to be an FQDN?

The item has the following parameters:

* t: The DNS RR type of the DNS query name, which MUST be specified
  as an sf-integer (so 64 for SVCB and 65 for HTTPS).  If not
  specified, the value of 65 (HTTPS) is the default.

* wait: The maximum time in milliseconds the proxy should wait before responding to
  the CONNECT* request while waiting for the SVCB resolution to
  complete, specified as an sf-integer.  The proxy MAY choose to not
  wait this long before responding.  If this value is less than 1
  then proxy SHOULD NOT wait for a SVCB resolution and should
  only include SVCB information it has cached.
  If this parameter is not specified, proxies are free to choose
  a reasonable default.

* params: Clients can optionally limit which SVCB parameters they'd like
  to receive by optionally specifying this parameter.  Its value MUST
  be an inner-list whose members are sf-integer items.
  Each list member corresponds to the numeric version of an SvcParamKey.
  If not specified, proxies SHOULD return the full set of SVCB parameters

>   for each SVCB RR.

Author: Just strips out other parameters.  Is this not clear later?

* version: Clients can optionally specify which versions of this specification
  they support.  Its value MUST be an inner-list whose members are sf-string

>   values.  This current draft specifies version "draft-01".

Author: Just when breaking changes.

> * u: Clients can indicate whether they want DNS information about

Author: yes, A/AAAA/CNAME records
```suggestion
* u: Clients can indicate whether they want DNS information (A, AAAA,
    and CNAME records) about
```

* If the SVCB DNS query name resolves to a SVCB ServiceMode record,
  only the ServiceMode records SHALL be included in the Proxy-DNS-SVCB
  list.

* If the SVCB DNS query name resolves to a SVCB AliasMode record, and
  if the TargetName of the SVCB AliasMode record resolves to a SVCB
  ServiceMode RRSet, only the ServiceMode records SHALL be included in
  the Proxy-DNS-SVCB list.
  
* If the SVCB DNS query name resolves to a SVCB AliasMode record, and
  if the TargetName of a SVCB AliasMode record does not resolve to any
  ServiceMode records, the Proxy-DNS-SVCB list SHALL include a single
  item containing the AliasMode TargetName and "priority=0".

* If no SVCB records are found authoritatively (i.e., a "NOERROR" or
  "NXDOMAIN" response when resolving the SVCB DNS query name specified
  in the Proxy-DNS-Request header), the list MUST contain a single
  entry with the item value of ".", indicating that the name has no
  SVCB records.  This special value of "." MUST NOT be returned in
  error conditions such as timeouts.  The value of the "ttl" parameter
  MUST be the TTL of this authoritative DNS response.

* If an error condition is encountered (such as a timeout, loop, or

>   invalid record), the Proxy-SVCB-DNS header MUST contain an empty list
>   (and thus not be returned).

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure these are the same thing.  How about simply....
```suggestion
  invalid record), the Proxy-SVCB-DNS header MUST NOT be returned.
```

Author: In structured headers they are the same thing.  Would saying an empty sf-list be more clear?

### Example Proxy-DNS-SVCB response

As an example, assume that the server resolved the SVCB DNS query name
"example.com" and RR type 65 (HTTPS) as follows:

~~~ diagram
   example.com.     7200 IN HTTPS 0 foo.svc.example.net.
   foo.svc.example.net 1800 IN CNAME svc.example.net.
   svc.example.net. 3600 IN HTTPS 1 svc2.example.net. alpn=h2,h3 echconfig="123..."
   svc.example.net. 3600 IN HTTPS 2 . alpn=h2 echconfig="abc..."
~~~

A successful CONNECT response would include the following headers, if the client requested both
"alpn" and "echconfig":

~~~ example
HEADERS
:method = CONNECT
:status = 200

> proxy-dns-svcb = "svc2.example.net.";priority=1;ttl=1800;key1=:aDIsaDM=:;key5=:MTIzLi4u:,
>                  "svc.example.net.";priority=2;ttl=1800;key1=:aDI=:;key5=:YWJjLi4u:

Reviewer 2: Given that the ellipsis is intended to represent longer content in the field, it might be better not to encode literal `...` in these binary examples.
```suggestion
proxy-dns-svcb = "svc2.example.net.";priority=1;ttl=1800;key1=:aDIsaDM=:;key5=:MTIz...:,
                 "svc.example.net.";priority=2;ttl=1800;key1=:aDI=:;key5=:YWJj...:
```

~~~

## Proxy-DNS-Used Response Header Field {#proxy-dns-used}

A proxy server that receives a request with "Proxy-DNS-Request" with MAY respond with
the Structured Header "Proxy-DNS-Used" response header fields. The value of
"Proxy-DNS-Used" MUST be an sf-list whose members are sf-string, each of
which MUST contain parameters.

~~~ abnf
Proxy-DNS-Used = sf-list
~~~

The intent of this header is to provide clients with enough
information to implement Section 5 of {{SVCB}}.

Proxy servers MUST NOT include the "Proxy-DNS-Used" response header field if the
corresponding request did not include a "Proxy-DNS-Request" or if its "u"
parameter had the value sf-false.

Each list member is an sf-string that represents either the IP address
(IPv4 or IPv6) that the proxy connected to for the CONNECT* request,
or the value of a DNS CNAME on the path of aliases involved in
resolving the hostname connected to by the proxy.

The last member in the list MUST have an item value that is the string
representation of the IPv6 or IPv4 address that represents the
destination of the CONNECT* from the proxy.  If this is an IPv6
address, it MUST follow the canonical string form from {{!RFC5952}}.

> *TODO*: Is there an IPv4 canonical form RFC we should reference here?

Reviewer 2: We might use `host` out of RFC 3986, since it specifies IPv4, IPv6, and hostname rendering.

> If the hostname connected to by the proxy was a series of CNAMEs,

Reviewer 2: I understand the point, but I don't know that a hostname can be said to "be" a series of CNAMEs.  Perhaps...
```suggestion
If the hostname provided by the client referred to one or more
CNAMEs before resolving to an IP address,
```

Author: (incorporating this but with "aliased" rather than "referred"

> If the hostname connected to by the proxy was a series of CNAMEs,

Author: ```suggestion
If the hostname connected to by the proxy aliased to one or more CNAMEs,
```

these should be included at the front of the list, starting with
the CNAME that the hostname resolved to and proceeding sequentially.

Each item in the list has the following parameters:

* t: The DNS RR type of the DNS query name, which MUST be specified
  as an sf-integer (so 1 for A, 28 for AAAA, and 5 for CNAME).

* ttl: The TTL of the address or CNAME record SHOULD be included as a
  parameter with the key "ttl", whose value MUST be an sf-integer.
  If the value of of intermediate records are unavailable,
  the ttl parameter SHOULD be included on just the last list
  entry, containing the minimum TTL value across the CNAMEs.

* o: The owner name of the DNS record MAY be included.

>   This this parameter is specified, its value MUST be an sf-string

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If this parameter is specified, its value MUST be an sf-string
```

  whose value is the owner name of the record.

### Example Proxy-DNS-Used response

As an example, assume that the proxy server resolved the
authority hostname of "svc.example.com" as follows:

~~~ diagram
   svc.example.com.  7200 IN CNAME  svc.example.net.
   svc.example.net.  1800 IN CNAME  svc2.example.net.
   svc2.example.net.   60 IN A      192.0.2.74
   svc2.example.net.   60 IN AAAA   2001:db8::75
   svc2.example.net.   60 IN AAAA   2001:db8::76
~~~

If the proxy connected to 2001:db8::75 then the successful CONNECT
response would include the following header:

~~~ example
HEADERS
:method = CONNECT
:status = 200
proxy-dns-used = "svc.example.net.";ttl=7200;t=5;o="svc.example.com.",
                 "svc2.example.net.";ttl=1800;t=5;o="svc.example.net.",
                 "2001:db8::75";ttl=60;t=28;o="svc2.example.net."
~~~

*TODO*: Do we need the "o=" parameter or is it redundant?
        If we include it, should it be a MUST or MAY?
        
*TODO*: Do we need to cover DNAME as well? 

*TODO*: Should a future version be able to include NS record

>         and DNSSEC information?

Reviewer 2: At first glance, it appears to be redundant. Is there a situation in which the owner is not simply the original hostname (for the first entry) or the preceding hostname (for subsequent entries)?

However, if we want to be able to include additional information in the future, it might make sense to swap the format around; rather than including a list of CNAME(s) and/or IP(s) and giving an owner for each, list the owner first and an inner list of useful records for each.

Author: The redundancy is why I'm include to leave it optional or just get rid of it.  It could be helpful for cases such as DNSSEC in the future, or perhaps if we include NS records or other things,

# Proxy Behavior

Proxy servers MUST NOT take action based on SVCB records.
In particular, the ipv4hint and ipv6hint SvcParams MUST NOT
be used by proxies for making connections.

> *TODO*: Discuss if this is too restrictive

Reviewer 2: I think this probably is too restrictive, especially in the case of SVCB-naive clients.  It means a high probability of the client having to open a new tunnel after processing the records, even though avoiding that is something this spec states as a goal.

It still seems reasonable for the proxy to chase AliasMode records, use hints, etc. to choose the target to connect to.  The flip side, I suppose, would be if the proxy chooses a host whose ALPN list doesn't reflect the client's support, but that could be solved by requiring the server to choose based on the transport protocol implied by the method, and then preferring the default ALPN within that.  Alternatively, the client could include an ALPN list in the request.

However, it's also totally reasonable to save that for a separate PR if we decide to do it.

Author: Part of why I'm wary of this is that it changes the Proxy behavior and semantics substantially.  Rather than the proxy just returning additional information, here we start fundamentally changing behavior.  (Would doing this count as an "Update" to any of the RFCs defining CONNECT, for example?)

# Client Behavior

Clients that are SVCB-required ({{SVCB}} Section 3) MUST perform a DNS
resolution prior to making a CONNECT* request, as they will need to

> obtain SVCB records and a TargetName.

Reviewer 2: Given the problems of doing such a resolution noted above, how would they do that?  It might make more sense to say that a client which is SVCB-required must abandon the tunnel if it doesn't receive SVCB records from the proxy.

Author: They could do DoH through the proxy, for example.  Or use ODoH.  Or do something else.  We could mention this in security considerations, but it seems like an implementation detail we don't want to get into?  This is already covered in the core SVCB draft in some detail.

clients SHOULD either use a connection made to the TargetName
of the AliasMode record, or they SHOULD use a connection
where any of the hostnames returned in Proxy-DNS-Used
matches the TargetName of the AliasMode record.

## SVCB-required clients

SVCB-required clients must either perform additional SVCB
DNS requests, or MUST use a proxy that is known and configured
to always return Proxy-DNS-SVCB and Proxy-DNS-Used headers.

SVCB-required clients SHOULD set high values for "wait" in
Proxy-DNS-Request and MUST treat the absence of a Proxy-DNS-SVCB
response header as an error.

SVCB-required clients may also need to make their initial request to
an authority with no expectation of being able to use that connection.
Protocols specifying for SVCB-required clients will need to describe
what clients should use in this case.

## Connection coalescing

*TODO*: Do we want to include text on how clients
can also use Proxy-DNS-Used for connection coalescing?
(One thing missing there is the full set of IP addresses
to look for overlaps within an address family.   I'm not
sure this is worth the complexity.  Or do we remove this

> sub-section entirely?)

Reviewer 2: My vote is for removal.  Coalescing based on IP address is not a battle we've been winning, and I don't think this draft is the venue to continue fighting it.

> ## Connection coalescing
> 
> *TODO*: Do we want to include text on how clients
> can also use Proxy-DNS-Used for connection coalescing?
> (One thing missing there is the full set of IP addresses
> to look for overlaps within an address family.   I'm not
> sure this is worth the complexity.  Or do we remove this
> sub-section entirely?)

Author: ```suggestion

```

## Interaction with Alt-Svc

*TODO*: Write this section...

## Interaction with SVCB records obtained through the DNS

*TODO*: Write this section...

# IANA Considerations

## HTTP Headers {#iana-header}

> This document registers the "Proxy-DNS-Request" and "Proxy-DNS-SVCB",

Author: ```suggestion
*TODO*: Move the registries below to the new HTTP-core registry.

This document registers the "Proxy-DNS-Request" and "Proxy-DNS-SVCB",
```

headers in the "Permanent Message Header Field Names"

> <[](https://www.iana.org/assignments/message-headers)>.

Reviewer 2: HTTP-core is moving these registries and will likely be an RFC before this document.  Let's go ahead and point there.

Author: Added a todo

  +----------------------+----------+--------+---------------+
~~~

# Privacy Considerations {#priv-considerations}

Client variation in Proxy-DNS-Request may be a vector for fingerprinting.
Clients concerned about this may prefer to:
* Not include "param" and receive all SVCB parameters.
* Sort the item's parameters by their keys.
* Limit variation in the values for "wait"
  and select a wait value of 50, 100, 200,
  400, 800, or 1600.
* Not send "version" if implementing only the default
  (published RFC) version.

*TODO*: Is this a good set of "wait" values?

# Security Considerations {#sec-considerations}

The "Proxy-DNS-SVCB" header in {{proxy-dns-svcb}} and "Proxy-DNS-Used"
headers in {{proxy-dns-used}} do not include any DNSSEC
information. Clients that depend on the contents of the SVCB record
being DNSSEC-validated MUST NOT use this metadata without otherwise
fetching the record and its corresponding RRSIG record and locally
verifying its contents.

Clients relying on ECH should avoid sending anything on
opportunistically created connections until verifying whether
there is a preferred alternative service that supports ECH
which they should use.

# Acknowledgments

> Thank you to Mike Bishop, Chris Wood, and others for their feedback and suggestions on this draft.
> # Appendix: Additional Examples {#examples}
> 

Author: ```suggestion
Thank you to Mike Bishop, Chris Wood, 
and others for their feedback and suggestions on this draft.

# Appendix: Additional Examples {#examples}

```
